Reddit users hate ads. They download
them, roast brands in the comments, and
they can smell marketing from a mile
away. Yet, Reddit has become one of the
biggest purchase influence engines on
the internet. Because Reddit users
aren't scrolling to get sold, they're
scrolling to decide. They've come here
when they're about to buy to validate
the best option, eliminate the scam, and
hear what real people actually
recommend. And now, Reddit's even bigger
because Google, Chat, GBT, and Perplexi
are pulling answers straight from Reddit
threads. So, if your brand isn't showing
up inside those conversations, you're
being left out during the highest intent
moment of the entire buyinger journey.
I'm Neil Patel. I've been in digital
marketing for 24 years and I built one
of the largest independent ad agencies,
NP Digital. In this video, I'm going to
break down exactly how a Reddit user
thinks before they buy and the complete
paid and organic playbook to get your
brand into that decision. Let's get into
it. Chapter one, the Reddit buyer
psychology.
Most marketers think Reddit users hate
buying things. Wrong. They hate being
sold to. That's a massive difference and
understanding it is worth millions.
Here's what's actually happening. When
you see an ad, your brain activates
skepticism circuits. You know someone
paid to tell you this. But when you see
a peer recommendation, someone with
nothing to gain, your brain processes it
through trust networks. It's the same
reason you trust a friend's restaurant
recommendation over a billboard. And
here's why Reddit amplifies this.
Anonymity breeds honesty. On Instagram
or LinkedIn, people curate their image.
But on Reddit, usernames are anonymous,
so there's no social cost in saying, "I
tried this product and it sucked." So
when Reddit users see skepticism, they
trust it more because there's no
incentive to lie. And when they see
praise from anonymous user, they trust
its gentlemen, not clout chasing. Reddit
amplifies this at scale. Reddit users
aren't on platform to shop. They're
there to research. Over 70% of people
who discover a brand elsewhere go to
Reddit to research it before buying. In
the last year, 88% of Reddit users made
a purchase based on information they
found on Reddit. But here's the key.
They don't buy on Reddit. They buy
because of Reddit. Let me explain what
that means. A user shows up in a
subreddit asking, "What's the best
standing desk?" They read through 20
comments. They eliminate the scams,
validate the top options, and hear what
real people recommend. And here's what's
fascinating. They're not looking for the
best option first. They're eliminating
the worst option. This is loss aversion
in action. Psychologically, humans are
twice as motivated to avoid a bad
purchase than find a great one. So,
Reddit users show up asking, "What
should I avoid?" before they ask, "Why
should I buy?" If your brand shows up on
the avoid list, you're done. But if you
help them eliminate bad options, you
become a trusted association. Then they
leave Reddit, Google a brand name, check
out the website, and buy 3 weeks later.
That's why Reddit attribution looks
broken. The conversion doesn't happen on
platform. It happens days or weeks later
somewhere else. So, if you're measuring
Reddit success by immediate return on ad
spend, you're measuring the wrong thing.
Reddit is a research phase. It's where
buyers validate their decision before
they ever click buy. And if your brand
isn't part of that research phase, you
don't exist in their consideration set.
When someone's in their researching
phase of a purchase, their prefrontal
cortex is fully engaged. That's the
analytical part of your brain. It's the
opposite of impulse buying where your
lyic system, the emotional instant
gratification part, takes over. That
means you can't interrupt their
prefrontal cortex mode with flashy ads
or urgent tactics. You have to speak to
the analyst, not the impulse buyer.
That's why educational content works.
And by now, messaging fails. And here's
why this matters more than ever. Reddit
isn't just influencing purchases on
Reddit anymore. It's influencing what
shows up everywhere your buyers are
searching. Chapter two, why Google and
Open Air are obsessed with Reddit.
Reddit signed data deals with Google and
OpenAI worth hundreds of millions of
dollars. When tech giants pay that much
for your content, it means one thing.
Reddit is influencing billions of
dollars in purchase behavior. Google is
now the only major search engine that
can even show you recent Reddit results.
In 2024, Reddit blocked all other search
engines from crawling the site. Being
can't access it. Duck.Go can't index it.
Only Google can give you reliable recent
Reddit results because they paid for
exclusive access. And Google isn't just
indexing Reddit. They're prioritizing
it. Go search best VPN for travel. Look
at the discussions and forms box. The
top result, Reddit. Google's algorithm
now prioritizes what they call authentic
human discussion, and Reddit is a poster
child for that. So, Reddit threads are
showing up at the top of the page for
one product searches, how-to queries,
and buying decisions. And here's where
it gets even bigger. Google uses
Reddit's real-time API to train Gemini
and their AI overviews. When you search
for something on Google and see that AI
generated summary at the top that's
often pulling from Reddit, and they're
renegotiating the deal right now to move
to dynamic pricing. That means Reddit
will get paid based on how often its
content shows up in answers. Chad GT and
Perplexi also pull from Reddit. But
Google is definitely the dominant player
right now. So what does this mean for
you? It means Google is the platform
where Reddit matters the most right now.
If your brand shows up in Reddit
threads, those threads are showing up in
Google search results and Google AI
answers. Let me give you a real example.
We work with Tobber tax during tax
season. They posted
159 helpful comments on Reddit. No
promotional posts, just genuinely
answering questions. Within days, those
threads started showing up in Google's
what people are saying box. Google's a
overview started citing them in answers
about tax software. And Turboax got over
5,000 brand mentions in 4 months. They
didn't need to run a single ad to do
this. They just showed up in their
conversations where people were already
making decisions. And because Google
prioritizes Reddit, those conversations
showed up everywhere their buyers were
searching. So the question isn't whether
you should be on Reddit. The question
is, how do you show up in Reddit threads
that Google's already prioritizing
without getting banned? Chapter three,
the organic strategy.
Reddit will ban you in 24 hours if you
start with a promotion. But follow this
threephrase framework and you can build
a presence that actually drives revenue.
Phase one is crawl. This is weeks 1
through 4. Your only goal here is to not
get banned and learn the culture. Find
three to five subreddits where your
audience hangs out. Join them. Read the
top posts. Learn how people talk. What
acronyms do they use? What tone works?
Then start commenting. Two to three
helpful comments per week. No promotion,
just add value. Build karma slowly.
That's Reddit's reputation system. The
more helpful you are, the more karma you
earn, and karma signals you're not a
spammer. Phase two is walk. This is
months two and three. Now you're
building credibility. Answer questions
in your area of expertise. Share
genuine, helpful resources, and most of
them shouldn't be yours. Here's a phrase
that works like magic on Reddit. in an
effort to add value. Here's what I
alert. Then drop real insights. If your
product happens to be part of that
solution, mention it naturally, but only
if it genuinely helps. Track what gets
uploaded and that tells you what
resonates. Phase three is run. This is
months 4 and beyond. Now, Reddit becomes
a real channel. You can create branded
subreddit if there's demand. One
password has 31,000 members in theirs.
Zapier has 13,000. You can run AMAs, ask
me anything sessions with your founder
or team. You can coordinate with your
SEO team to make sure your Reddit
content aligns with your blog content.
And now you can start running ads
because you understand the culture. But
here's the thing, you have to follow the
rules. For example, don't use AI to
write your comments. I found that Reddit
detects over 70% of AI generated
responses and removes them. I tested
this with 10 people. We each use Chat
GBT 10 times. Over 70% got flagged and
deleted. Don't sound corporate. Write
like a human, not a press release.
Contribute way more than you promote.
Reddit has a 99 one rule. 90% of users
just read. 9% engage. 1% create content.
You want to be in the 9% before you ever
promote. And respect the moderators.
They're volunteers with absolute power.
If you violate subreddit rules, they'll
ban you and there's no appeal. Okay,
that's the organic foundation. But
before we talk about paid, if you just
want someone to do this for you so that
way you can run faster, check out our ad
agency, NP Digital, where we've done
this successfully for big and small
brands on Reddit. Chapter four, the paid
strategy.
Reddit ads can be super cheap, like $3
CPMs, while Facebook is 30. But here's a
problem. Most marketers still fail on
Reddit in the first week. Not because
the platform doesn't work, but because
they're trying to run Reddit like it's
meta. So, let me give you the exact paid
playbook. First, when should you even
run Reddit ads? Only when you've checked
a few boxes. One, meta and Tik Tok are
already working for you. Reddit is not
where you start, and Reddit is where you
expand. Ralph Dumpines, one of our lead
paid social media strategist at NP
Digital, puts it this way. Reddit is a
top up platform. You need to satisfy
Meta and Tik Tok first. Once you max
those out, then Reddit can take the
third spot. And he's right. Reddit works
best as a complimentary budget, not your
primary spend. Two, your product needs
research. Software, supplements, tech,
finance, anything where people spend
days or weeks deciding. If it's an
impulse buy, Reddit isn't probably your
best channel. Three, you need to educate
without pitching. Reddit doesn't reward
hype. It rewards clarity. Four, you have
at least 60 to 90 days to test because
attribution on Reddit is messy. This is
more influence than it is instant
rorowass. Five, you've done the organic
work. you understand the culture. You
know what gets upvoted and what gets
roasted. And here's my rule. If you
don't have at least three of those,
don't run paid yet. Second, how much
should you spend? Keep it simple. Take
10% of your total budget. If your budget
is in the tens of millions, you can go
with 5%. And that should be your Reddit
test budget. Start small and run each
idea until you hit roughly 3,000
impressions because Reddit tells you
fast. People don't care, they'll ignore
it, or worst case, they'll download it.
Third, how do you target? Reddit gives
you three basic options. One of them is
subreddit targeting, more precise, but
the audience can be tiny. Two, keyword
targeting, broader, but sometimes can be
too broad. Like if you target weight
loss, you might catch menopause,
athletes, bodybuilders, everyone, right?
Which may not all be your audience.
Three, interest targeting. Massive
reach, but not always high intent. So,
here's what usually works best. Start
with subreddit targeting, then widen
with interest. That's how you get both
precision and scale. Fourth, creative is
everything. This is where Reddit
campaigns live or die. You need to test
three angles every time. One, humor,
meme style, self-aware, native fits
Reddit's culture. Two, pure
informational. Here's what you need to
know before you buy X. This works
insanely well for anything complex like
B2B SAS. Three, aspirational. Here's
what's possible. Great for fitness,
career, self-improvement. But here's the
big rule on Reddit. Your ad can't feel
like a ad. If it looks like a polished
Facebook creative, it won't work well.
Remember, Reddit users can smell
marketing from a mile away. The second
they feel like a brand is trying to
sneak in an ad into the conversation,
their brain goes, "Don't tell me what to
do." That reaction has a name,
reactants. It's basically your brain
protecting your freedom to choose.
Reddit users have seen thousands of
companies try to fake being just a
normal person. So the radar is insanely
sharp. The moment your post sounds
corporate, salesy, or too polished, they
assume that you're manipulating them.
And that's when the down votes and
roasting starts. It's not about logic.
It's gut level automatic reaction. So
your creative has to pass the brain's BS
detector. Make it feel like a post.
Write like a human. No corporate tone.
Fifth scaling. Max campaigns. If you
find a creative that works, use Reddit's
max campaigns to let AI scale it
automatically. Last, attribution is the
trap. Reddit rarely converts in a
straight line. It's usually Reddit,
Google search, website by later. So,
don't measure Reddit like Facebook.
Instead, track things like brand search
lift, retargeting pool growth, assisted
conversions over 30 to 90 days. Because
Reddit isn't the checkout lane. Reddit
is the decision room. And if you win the
decision room, you win the sale. Chapter
five, the ecosystem play.
Reddit doesn't work in isolation. The
brands getting the best results are
using Reddit to feed Google to feed
their email list and feed their
retargeting. Here's the fullfunnel
strategy. Reddit feeds Google SEO.
Reddit comments also rank in Google's
decision and forms box. Use Reddit
insights to create blog content that
ranks. Turboax did this. They saw
negative Reddit threads ranking for is
Turboax free. So they created a guide
called ways to file for free. That
outranked the negative threads and now
they control the narrative. Reddit feeds
AI search. Chat GP and Plexi site Reddit
threads constantly. Get mentioned in the
right threads and you show up in AI
answers. Reddit feeds retargeting. Use
the Reddit pixel and Facebook pixel
together. Someone visits your site from
Reddit, then you retarget them
everywhere else. Reddit feeds your
content. Search Reddit for questions in
your niche. Turn those questions into
blog posts, emails, and videos. And
Reddit feeds product development. It's a
live focus group. You see unfiltered
feedback on features, pricing, and
messaging. The CEO of Hrefs posts in a
big SEO subreddit every 2 years asking
for feedback. Some response are brutal,
but all of them teach him something. So
don't think of Reddit as one channel.
Think of it as a research layer that
powers everything else. Reddit users
aren't there to buy, they're there to
decide. And if you understand that, you
can build presence that drives real
revenue. Now, if you want to see how the
smartest brands are dominating across
search and social platforms, watch one
of these videos